README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/berkmancenter/odie_backend.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/berkmancenter/odie_backend)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/berkmancenter/odie_backend/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/berkmancenter/odie_backend?branch=master)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/80c54b5a43b952542cdb/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/berkmancenter/odie_backend/maintainability)

# README

These instructions are for ODIE developers. You might instead want to read...
* [the admin docs](doc/admin.md), if you're an administrator of an ODIE instance
* [the api docs](doc/api.md), if you're writing code to consume the ODIE API.

# System requirements
* ruby 2.6
* postgres 9.2+.
* Elasticsearch 6.5
* Logstash 6.5

## Getting started
* Copy `config/database.yml.example` to `config/database.yml` and change its values to match your postgres.
* `bundle install`
* `rails db:setup`

## Architecture
This describes the architecture that this system will have AFTER a significant
refactor-in-progress. Only a portion of this is currently written.

The data collection pipeline is:

![alt text](docs/charts/architecture.png "Odie architecture diagram")

`SearchQuery` defines terms to look for in the Twitter firehose (for example,
terms representing a particular media source).

`CohortCollector` monitors a `SearchQuery` and selects a particular cohort of
users who are tweeting about it.

`Cohort` is a list of twitter IDs representing a particular user cohort, plus a
description.

`DataSet` collects and stores user timeline data from a given `Cohort`. The raw
data is stored in Elasticsearch, but metadata is stored on the `DataSet`
instance for ease of API querying.

As the first two models govern Twitter firehose data and the second two govern
user timeline data, there's a clean separation boundary between `CohortCollector`
and `Cohort`. This means that `Cohorts` can be defined either wihin ODIE, by
`CohortCollector`, or manually, using ids from Twitter firehose data analyzed
elsewhere.

## Environment Variables
Set all environment variables in `.env`.

In production:
* `DATABASE_USERNAME`
* `DATABASE_PASSWORD`
* `DATABASE_NAME`
* `DATABASE_HOST`
* `DATABASE_PORT` (optional; defaults to `5432`)
* `DATABASE_TIMEOUT` (optional; defaults to `5000`)
* `MAILER_SENDER`
* `DEFAULT_URL_OPTIONS_HOST` (defaults to `localhost`)
* `DEFAULT_URL_OPTIONS_PORT` (optional)
* `SECRET_KEY_BASE`

In production, or in dev if you want to write `twitter.conf` files, you will need:
* `TWITTER_CONSUMER_KEY`
* `TWITTER_CONSUMER_SECRET`
* `TWITTER_OAUTH_TOKEN`
* `TWITTER_OAUTH_SECRET`
* `ELASTICSEARCH_HOST`
* `ELASTICSEARCH_INDEX`

In any environment:
* `NUM_USERS` (optional; defaults to `5000`)
* `TWEETS_PER_USER` (optional; defaults to `50`)
* `LOGSTASH_COMMAND` (optional; whatever invokes logstash on your system; defaults to `logstash`)
* `LOGSTASH_RUN_TIME` (optional; how long to run the streaming data collection run; can be any duration accepted by `timeout`; defaults to `1h`)

In test:
* `TEST_CLUSTER_COMMAND` (the command which runs Elasticsearch on your machine)

## Collecting Twitter data
To test that your streaming data collection pipeline is running:
* Copy `twitter.conf.example` to `test.conf` and edit in the appropriate variables.
  * The keywords can be anything, but not all keywords will be found on Twitter within a short amount of time; "washingtonpost" is a reliable choice.
* Make sure elasticsearch is running.
* `logstash -f logstash/config/test.conf`
  - On the server, this is `/usr/share/logstash/bin/logstash -f logstash/config/test.conf`.

To collect user data:
* Make sure you have collected some streaming data.
* Make sure elasticsearch is running.
* Create a MediaSource, a DataConfig and a DataSet.
  - Good defaults:
    - `ms = MediaSource.create(url: 'https://www.washingtonpost.com', name: 'Washington Post', description: 'Democracy dies in darkness')`
    - `dc = DataConfig.create(media_sources: [ms])`
    - `ds = DataSet.create(media_source: ms, data_config: dc)`
* `ds.run_pipeline`

This will all be wrapped into an admin-friendly workflow at some point, but it hasn't been yet.

## Docker

You can use Docker for development to make things easier. You will need to install `Docker` and `Docker Compose`.

Then:
- copy `config/database.yml.example` to `config/database.yml` and change update the development section to `postgres` for the host, username, password and database
- `docker-compose exec website sh`
- `rails db:setup`
- `docker-compose up` and the application will run on http://localhost:3000

## Tests
Run tests with `rspec`.

Aim to adhere to http://www.betterspecs.org/.

Take inspiration from Sandi Metz's [Magic Tricks of Testing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=URSWYvyc42M): assert results and side effects of messages received from collaborators; assert that messages are sent to collaborators; don't test private methods or messages sent to self.

### Troubleshooting
If elasticsearch is timing out in tests, your elasticsearch process may be
failing to get a node lock. Kill any other Elasticsearch processes. (This is
especially likely if you have ended another test run early, without shutting
down the test cluster.)

## General development instructions
* Keep test coverage above 90%. (`open coverage/index.html` after a test run to see how you're doing.)
* Use a rubocop-based linter.
* Travis, Coveralls, and CodeClimate checks must all be passing before code is merged; `master` should always be deployable.

Commit message:

Update API to match new architecture
Now that we've added Cohort and ditched MediaSource, we need to be
serializing Cohort. The Cohort serializer largely preserves the
functionality of the MediaSource serializer, but is implemented more
elegantly. Routes and tests are updated accordingly.
spec/integration/data_ingestion_spec.rb
is tossed because those features have already been checked in
spec/models/data_set_spec.rb.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/berkmancenter/odie_backend.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/berkmancenter/odie_backend)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/berkmancenter/odie_backend/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/berkmancenter/odie_backend?branch=master)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/80c54b5a43b952542cdb/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/berkmancenter/odie_backend/maintainability)

# README

These instructions are for ODIE developers. You might instead want to read...
* [the admin docs](doc/admin.md), if you're an administrator of an ODIE instance
* [the api docs](doc/api.md), if you're writing code to consume the ODIE API.

# System requirements
* ruby 2.6
* postgres 9.2+.
* Elasticsearch 6.5
* Logstash 6.5

## Getting started
* Copy `config/database.yml.example` to `config/database.yml` and change its values to match your postgres.
* `bundle install`
* `rails db:setup`

## Architecture
This describes the architecture that this system will have AFTER a significant
refactor-in-progress. Only a portion of this is currently written.

The data collection pipeline is:

![alt text](docs/charts/architecture.png "Odie architecture diagram")

`SearchQuery` defines terms to look for in the Twitter firehose (for example,
terms representing a particular media source).

`CohortCollector` monitors a `SearchQuery` and selects a particular cohort of
users who are tweeting about it.

`Cohort` is a list of twitter IDs representing a particular user cohort, plus a
description.

`DataSet` collects and stores user timeline data from a given `Cohort`. The raw
data is stored in Elasticsearch, but metadata is stored on the `DataSet`
instance for ease of API querying.

As the first two models govern Twitter firehose data and the second two govern
user timeline data, there's a clean separation boundary between `CohortCollector`
and `Cohort`. This means that `Cohorts` can be defined either wihin ODIE, by
`CohortCollector`, or manually, using ids from Twitter firehose data analyzed
elsewhere.

## Environment Variables
Set all environment variables in `.env`.

In production:
* `DATABASE_USERNAME`
* `DATABASE_PASSWORD`
* `DATABASE_NAME`
* `DATABASE_HOST`
* `DATABASE_PORT` (optional; defaults to `5432`)
* `DATABASE_TIMEOUT` (optional; defaults to `5000`)
* `MAILER_SENDER`
* `DEFAULT_URL_OPTIONS_HOST` (defaults to `localhost`)
* `DEFAULT_URL_OPTIONS_PORT` (optional)
* `SECRET_KEY_BASE`

In production, or in dev if you want to write `twitter.conf` files, you will need:
* `TWITTER_CONSUMER_KEY`
* `TWITTER_CONSUMER_SECRET`
* `TWITTER_OAUTH_TOKEN`
* `TWITTER_OAUTH_SECRET`
* `ELASTICSEARCH_HOST`
* `ELASTICSEARCH_INDEX`

In any environment:
* `NUM_USERS` (optional; defaults to `5000`)
* `TWEETS_PER_USER` (optional; defaults to `50`)
* `LOGSTASH_COMMAND` (optional; whatever invokes logstash on your system; defaults to `logstash`)
* `LOGSTASH_RUN_TIME` (optional; how long to run the streaming data collection run; can be any duration accepted by `timeout`; defaults to `1h`)

In test:
* `TEST_CLUSTER_COMMAND` (the command which runs Elasticsearch on your machine)

## Collecting Twitter data
To test that your streaming data collection pipeline is running:
* Copy `twitter.conf.example` to `test.conf` and edit in the appropriate variables.
  * The keywords can be anything, but not all keywords will be found on Twitter within a short amount of time; "washingtonpost" is a reliable choice.
* Make sure elasticsearch is running.
* `logstash -f logstash/config/test.conf`
  - On the server, this is `/usr/share/logstash/bin/logstash -f logstash/config/test.conf`.

To collect user data:
* Make sure you have collected some streaming data.
* Make sure elasticsearch is running.
* Create a MediaSource, a DataConfig and a DataSet.
  - Good defaults:
    - `ms = MediaSource.create(url: 'https://www.washingtonpost.com', name: 'Washington Post', description: 'Democracy dies in darkness')`
    - `dc = DataConfig.create(media_sources: [ms])`
    - `ds = DataSet.create(media_source: ms, data_config: dc)`
* `ds.run_pipeline`

This will all be wrapped into an admin-friendly workflow at some point, but it hasn't been yet.

## Docker

You can use Docker for development to make things easier. You will need to install `Docker` and `Docker Compose`.

Then:
- copy `config/database.yml.example` to `config/database.yml` and change update the development section to `postgres` for the host, username, password and database
- `docker-compose exec website sh`
- `rails db:setup`
- `docker-compose up` and the application will run on http://localhost:3000

## Tests
Run tests with `rspec`.

Aim to adhere to http://www.betterspecs.org/.

Take inspiration from Sandi Metz's [Magic Tricks of Testing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=URSWYvyc42M): assert results and side effects of messages received from collaborators; assert that messages are sent to collaborators; don't test private methods or messages sent to self.

The tests are fairly brittle around the state of Elasticsearch; if you get
failures you don't expect, make sure the test Elasticsearch instance has been
stopped properly. (This is especially a problem if you abruptly exited the
previous testing run, e.g. by quitting out of byebug.) Simply rerunning the
test suite after a clean exit will often also fix this problem.

### Troubleshooting
If elasticsearch is timing out in tests, your elasticsearch process may be
failing to get a node lock. Kill any other Elasticsearch processes. (This is
especially likely if you have ended another test run early, without shutting
down the test cluster.)

## General development instructions
* Keep test coverage above 90%. (`open coverage/index.html` after a test run to see how you're doing.)
* Use a rubocop-based linter.
* Travis, Coveralls, and CodeClimate checks must all be passing before code is merged; `master` should always be deployable.
